---
layout: post
title: Report 2017-10-16 to 10-29
excerpt_separator:  <!--more-->
category: Post
---

I tried to implement the high-utility mining (HUM) algorithm with the basic idea mentioned by the blog that Dr.Carson provided for me.

[Link:　An Introduction to High-Utility Itemset Mining][1]

The basic idea of HUM is using a new unit, called utility, to measure the value of the itemset instead of the support that the Apriori algorithm used. The utility value of a item in a transaction calculated by the number of item times a sub value that decides the item.

For example, an apple purchased 5 times in a transaction, and each apple cost 3 dollars. Then the utility of the apple in that transaction is 5x3 = 15.  

The utility re-define the value of the items and itemsets, provides a new possibility to mining the relations of items without ignore the details of transaction. Such as the purchase quantity and the value of item.

I also learned that the HUM is different with the Apriori algorithm because the main characteristic of Apriori doesn't works in the HUM, which is the clouser property (If an itemset is frequent by support, then all its subsets must also be frequent by support.).

I realized that using a simple loop to calculate utility of each items and itemsets will be an inefficient way to implement my algorithm. And the blog did not provide an algorithm that commonly used in HUM. So I know I have to learn more about HUM.

Actually I found two papers which can support my implementation.

[Yao H., Hamilton H. J., Butz C.J., “A foundational approach to mining itemset utilities from databases”, ICDM 2004, pp. 482-486.][2]

[S. Meenakshi, P. Sharmila, "A Review of Mining High Utility Patterns", IJIRCCE 2017, Vol. 5 Issue 8][3]

The first paper introduce the HUM in detail, and the second one is the newest paper that gave me a overview about HUM in 2017. I will write a summarize for both papers in other post for me to review, and you can also check that out.


  [1]: http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.70.53&rep=rep1&type=pdf
  [2]: http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.70.53&rep=rep1&type=pdf
  [3]: https://www.ijircce.com/upload/2017/august/32_IJIRCCE_Paper_Template.pdf
